All right, so you're gonna flip
over to an exercise real quick.
And basically,
cuz listening to me talk about how to
move around the Figma UI is great and
wonderful, highly recommended.
Everyone should listen to me talk.
But probably,
a more useful kind of part of your time
here is to just try a few things out.
We're gonna get all the way into
building drop down menus and
buttons that hover and have all
the states that we're used to in a UI.
But if we are still struggling
to get stuff where we need it,
it's going to be a not fun time.
So this is an initial kind of setup.
The goal is to get a something like this.
You don't need to get it exactly in
the same position, I don't care.
But ideally,
we want to figure out how to kind of use
some of these alignment tools as well.
One of the things I would recommend
that you do is press the Cmd or
Ctrl key and go ahead and
get that frame selected.
And what you can do,
you can work in this one if you want.
You can also hold Option.
You'll notice that when I hold Option or
Alt,
I can make a duplicate of any given layer
and have a second version to work with it.
We'll see some tricks that you
can do with that in a second.
But first,
why don't you get comfortable with
the tool that we're gonna use all day?
And then we'll kind of do a whole bunch
of these little extensions down here in
a second, and we will learn a whole bunch
of other little tricks as we go along.
>> How do I zoom in with hotkeys and
not snap to 50% or 100%?
>> With hotkeys.
>> Is there a way?
>> I think that we all learn together
is on a Mac pinching and zooming works.
The same way works in the browser,
you can do plus and minus, but
it's got a big jump.
The thing that we just learned together
is if I hold Cmd + click on a frame and
hit Shift to, it will zoom in to
just that frame I'm looking at.
Something that we all learn together.
All right, so our mission here was
basically to take the red rectangles and
get them along the same vertical axis and
distributed equally.
And the blue rectangles as well.
And then there were a whole bunch of
little extension exercises hanging
out down below that will kind of
mostly complete our understanding of
kind of moving around and
moving stuff around in Figma.
All right, so
here's my kinda cloned version.
Watch this, I'm gonna Cmd +
click on there, I hit Shift+2,
and it's going to zoom in just perfectly.
Most of the time,
I almost always want the sidebars.
But if for some reason you do not,
you can hit Cmd or I assume, Ctrl + ., and
you can hide both sidebars if you need
a little bit more viewing space, right?
As we stream, I'm a little more
zoomed in than I would normally be.
So all that stuff kind of takes up
a little bit more space than when I'm
working on a 27 inch monitor at home,
but both of those are options as well.
Okay, so we have a few options here.
We can click and drag, I can hit Select,
we'll go see there's a whole bunch
of other ways to go about selecting
multiple things at the same time.
But that's its own section, so
I'm not going to talk about it right now.
So for the distributing part, you can
see that Figma has mostly figured out,
it's kind of clippie, looks like you're
trying to distribute things evenly, right?
And it's like, yes, I am, right?
So that one's pretty easy for us, and
it gets those most of the way there.
And you can see that when that happens, I
get these fun little, I can change it and
move it to get everything
just the way that I want.
So if you hold Shift,
it'll go by increments of 10 as well.
That's sometimes helpful depending
on what you're trying to do,
but I have that in place.
Then the other part is getting
them along the same axis.
So I could go ahead and
pick any one of these really
that makes me happiest, right?
That'll work, I can undo,
I can do the center alignment as well.
Depends on what I'm trying to do.
The trick is usually to
get either the center one
in the right place on
the axis that you're trying.
Or if you're trying to distribute them,
get the top and the bottom one,
where you want them to go, and
then you can kind of use the tools
to do the rest for you, Mark?
>> Is there a way to find out
the distance between two objects?
>> Yes, so the way to find
the distance between two objects is
you grab the starting position, and
you hold down either Option or Alt.
And then you can kind of
move your mouse around, and
you can kind of figure
out what the distance is.
Obviously, if it's just towards the edges,
you'll see that.
If it's kind of make a right turn
main street, you'll see kind of both
directions on your way there,
I guess the fastest route, not really.
But kind of both the x and
the y axis to where the other one is.
Again, these are the things that are not
only helpful for getting your designs,
right?
But also when you are on
the receiving end of these designs,
very useful figuring out how far is
that icon from the text in that button?
All right, cuz previously, I would
just like hit Refresh consistently.
One dangerous thing that we will learn
is the option key has two things.
When we get to extension, I'll show you
this again, which is holding the Option
key and moving mouse around will
show you all the distances.
As we saw when we copied the frame,
holding it while dragging will
accidentally make you lots of copies,
which I accidentally do more
times than I would like to admit.
So that's a thing that can happen as well.
But if you find yourself accidentally
making a copy, take your hand off
the Option key, and you'll go back
to just moving things, right?
So just hands off and you can kind go
back and figure stuff out as well.
And you can also see as you're moving
stuff around, it will show you the guides.
If you are holding the Alt key, this is
where I make the mistake all the time, it
both duplicates and will also show you the
kind of distance from when you started.
So you just have to either, a, be careful
to let go of the Alt key before you let
go of holding down the mouse, or B,
just be comfortable deleting the original.
This isn't ink on paper, you can see
the computer, you just change stuff.
So both of those kinds of
work in that sense as well.
So here, I can align them by hand,
distributing them is
a little bit trickier.
You'll see that it will snap as well,
but I can also kind of select them all,
get them mostly where I need them to be,
not that one, and
then distribute them or kind of
change any of those pieces as well.
So I can then distribute horizontally,
and now they'll be even there as well.
Let's go ahead and look at some of these
extensions cuz some of these are useful
and helpful, and we'll use them later.
We did this one already,
this is when you have things that
are already kind of mostly aligned.
You can grab the pink handle here and
kind of evenly move them all around, so
you're not doing one by one.
And so we did that, cool.
All right, this one's pretty neat.
So you can also duplicate a layer
by hitting Cmd or Ctrl + D, right?
And that will duplicate one
exactly where it is presently,
which if you're not thinking it's the end
of the day, it means you're forgetting,
leave one on top of the other one,
and then be, why didn't it duplicate?
It did, just in the same position.
That's never happened to me this week.
The other thing you can
do is if you hold Alt and
you make that copy as we saw before,
okay, cool, this is 24 pixels.
That seems like a multiple of eight,
I like 24.
That's a good number, and let's say I
needed to make a bunch of these red boxes.
I could hold Alt again,
try to get to another 24 pixels, or
I could just do it and I can use
those tools to distribute evenly, and
then hope that they're all 24, and
then adjust with the pink handle.
Once I've dragged one with Alt,
I can hit Cmd + D, and
I'll make more of them of
the same distance between the two
layers of the last time I held Alt or
Option and dragged.
So that works as well,
we got that one done.
All right,
we saw the ability to switch objects.
So if I kind of put these in place here,
let's grab some red and some blue.
We'll go ahead and
we'll distribute them, tidy up.
You see these little dots in here,
I can hold Cmd and
effectively swap two items, right?
So it'll just swap the position
of both of them, and
I don't have to move one and then try
to remember where the other one was.
Because when I was first
learning this tool,
did I write down the x and y positions
in either a text editor or on a notepad?
Maybe, do I ever want to do that again?
I don't, right?
And again,
some of these things are the things
that will get you from a frustrating.
Cuz normally, this is all fine and
good to do things the hard way
until you have a deadline.
So we've got that in place.
We said before, if you hold Shift,
it'll mostly stay along the axis unless
it is fully snapping to something else.
But if you're worried about just kind
of going off a pixel, holding Shift and
moving around will take care of that for
you as well.
And as we saw with a question earlier,
if I hold Alt and move my mouse around,
I can see the distance between two lines.
We have one other trick for getting
stuff aligned appropriately that is
super useful, which is not on by default.
But if I hit Shift + R,
I get these rulers,
which will kind of show me where
stuff is in relationship to the x and
y axis of the entire
page that I'm looking at.
But I can also drag from a ruler,
either from the left side or from the top.
I can drag the ruler out, leave a ruler
in place, so I can leave it right here,
and then I can go and
just snap stuff over there as well.
So yeah, that is kind of basically how
you can kind of get stuff aligned,
move stuff around, a bunch of the kind of
tricks for duplicating, measuring, and
stuff along those lines.